How strong is your core?
Now, health experts will tell you
that the core is
one of the most important groups
of muscles that you can strengthen.
These are the muscles
that are in the trunk of the body
from somewhere around the neck to the waist.
And a strong core will keep
you standing if something knocks against you.
Having a strong core
will allow you to carry a heavy weight.
And if you fall, a strong core
will help you to get back up on your feet.
So thus, experts say
that exercises that strengthen the core,
these foundational muscles, are so important,
especially for older people.
So how strong is your core?
But the real question
we want to consider today is,
How strong is your spiritual core
—our spiritual foundational muscles?
Now, we see the importance
of having a strong spiritual core
when we look at today’s text
in 2 Timothy chapter 3.
If you look up verse 6,
here the apostle Paul is talking
about wicked “men who slyly work their way
into households” and deceive many.
At verse 8, he talks about “Jannes
and Jambres [who] opposed Moses.”
These were wicked men,
“completely corrupted in mind,”
who tried to discredit everything
that Moses said and did.
And then, as we see in today’s text,
Paul said that “wicked men and impostors”
would arise in the last days
and they would “advance from bad to worse.”
Well, what did Paul say would help Timothy?
What did he need to do?
He needed a strong spiritual core.
What was that?
Well, look what he says
in verses 14 and 15—2 Timothy 3.
He says: “You, however,
continue in the things that you learned
“and were persuaded to believe,
knowing from whom you learned them
“and that from infancy
you have known the holy writings,
which are able to make you wise
for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.”
Do you see the two things?
Number one: He needed to have
a deep understanding
and trust of “the holy writings,”
the Scriptures.
And two: He needed to never forget,
to remember,
from whom he learned
all the good things that he knew.
See, he needed to make sure that was solid.
That would help him to deal
with the wicked men
and impostors.
Now, this solid, spiritual foundation
is what also helped Jesus’ apostles.
Think about the tactics
that the wicked men and imposters
used against Jesus and how this
could have affected the apostles
or affected us, if we had been there.
Let’s consider four tactics
that they used against Jesus.
Number one:
They used lies and misrepresentation.
Turn back, if you will,
to Matthew 11:9 as an example
—Matthew 11:19, excuse me.
Matthew 11:19—it says:
“The Son of man did come
eating and drinking, but people say,
“‘Look! A man who is a glutton
and is given to drinking wine,
a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’”
Now, did Jesus like to eat and drink?
Yes.
Did he, in fact,
eat with tax collectors and sinners?
Yes.
But you know what
the wicked men and imposters did?
They stretched it to say,
‘Well, you see, he’s a glutton;
he’s a drunkard; he is a friend
of tax collectors and sinners.’
Look at Luke 15:2;
it even kind of insinuates
that he condones their behavior
or maybe even shares in their sins.
What if you were there?
‘Now, we know he likes to eat and drink,
‘but I’m not with him 24 hours a day.
I hope that’s not true.’
Can you see how
that could plant seeds of doubt?
how it could rock somebody?
A second tactic: Wicked men
and imposters would also twist Jesus’ words.
Look at John 5:18 as an example.
John 5:18—it says:
“This is why the Jews
began seeking all the more to kill him,
“because not only was he breaking the Sabbath
“but he was also calling God his own Father,
making himself equal to God.”
So here they twist Jesus’ words,
saying that Jesus was saying
that he was “equal to God.”
Jesus never said that he was equal to God.
He said that he was God’s Son;
he said: “The Father is greater than I am.”
But they constantly took Jesus’ words
and repackaged them,
twisting them to make it sound like
Jesus was off on his own.
Now, what if you heard
that story told and retold?
You didn’t hear the conversation,
but you heard the story;
you heard the sound bite.
‘Wow!
Did he really say that?
‘Now, that would be out of line if he had,
because nobody is equal to God.’
They also capitalized
on errors that were made.
Look over to Luke chapter 9.
You remember,
this is the account when the disciples
could not cast out
the demon in the young man.
And you look at verse 40.
Here the father says
—Luke 9:40—
he says: “‘I begged your disciples
to expel it, but they could not.’
“In response Jesus said:
‘O faithless and twisted generation,
“‘how long must I continue
with you and put up with you?
Bring your son over here.’”
Now, as we know,
apparently the scribes were criticizing
the disciples because
of their failure to heal the boy.
Now, again, what if you were standing there?
What if you saw this one with your own eyes?
‘Wait a minute, those are Jesus’ disciples.
‘That’s their commission.
‘That’s what they’re supposed to do.
Perhaps these people
aren’t as special as I thought they were.’
Wicked men and impostors
would also inflame statements
that people did not understand.
Look at John 6:54.
You remember here when Jesus said:
“Whoever feeds on my flesh
and drinks my blood has everlasting life,
and I will resurrect him on the last day.”
What was the reaction?
You look at verse 60:
“When they heard this,
many of the disciples said:
‘This speech is shocking;
who can listen to it?’”
Verse 66:
“[They] went off to the things behind
and would no longer [follow] him.”
See, rather than giving it time
to see if they understood it correctly
or waiting to see if maybe Jesus clarified
the statement, it knocked them.
And you notice (in verse 52)
the Jews further stirred this up,
and because of that,
many stopped following him.
It was too heavy for them to carry.
Now, what if you were there,
and this time you heard Jesus say that?
‘Whoa!
Man, that’s odd!
‘I don’t think I can explain that teaching.
He seems to be getting
more and more extreme.’
Well, how did many react to these attacks?
Well, the crowds loved to follow Jesus.
They loved to hear his winsome words.
‘No man has ever spoken like this.’
Thousands would come to be fed
by him and to be healed by him,
but in the end,
most did not stick with Jesus.
Why?
Well, because when you strip
all the other peripherals away,
all the other extras away,
it came down to their faith in Bible prophecy
and that this man
that was speaking to them
was the Son of God.
Their spiritual core was not strong enough.
Now, Jesus’ disciples
had a strong spiritual core.
See, even though they did get knocked down
—they got confused at times—
they stayed solid.
They were able to get back up.
Why?
Because they recalled the Scriptures,
and they were convinced
that they were listening to the Son of God.
Well, today, wicked men and imposters
use exactly the same techniques.
And it’s only going to get worse.
They use lies and misrepresentation.
They lie about how we deal with child abusers
and how we care
for the victims of child abuse.
They twist statements
that are made regarding our stand on blood,
loyalty to families, disfellowshipping.
They capitalize on what
they perceive as errors
—perhaps dogmatic statements
we made in the past
regarding a Bible prophecy
or our understanding of the time of the end,
and then we later changed it.
They also put a negative spin
on changes that they do not understand
—why we simplified
and did reassignments in 2015,
new explanations of the generation,
or changes at world headquarters.
What’s the result?
Well, some are swayed by these things.
They’re stumbled; they’re knocked down.
It’s too heavy for them to carry.
How about us?
How strong is our spiritual core?
See, that’s why we hear repeatedly
that we must personally have a regular,
deep study of the Scriptures.
That’s why
we’re reminded repeatedly that Jehovah
is using the Governing Body
to give us the good things that we have.
Now, why is that so important?
Well, because one day we may hit a time,
whether personally
(in our personal life) or as an organization,
when all the other spiritual peripherals
are gone—all the extras.
What do we do then?
What do we do, for example,
if the lights go out on JW Broadcasting®?
What happens, perhaps, when we
don’t have the incredible conventions,
the touching videos, the catchy music,
the beautifully-written
(well-written) Watchtower  articles,
the exciting annual meetings?
They’re gone.
See, some of our brothers
and sisters do not have access
to those things right now.
Well, you see, at that time,
it will come down to our faith
that this is God’s Word
and that the Governing Body
is the channel that Jehovah has been using.
So during this period of relative calm,
may we follow the advice of the apostle Paul
at 2 Timothy 3:14, 15
and know “the holy writings” inside and out
and remember from whom we’ve learned
all the good things that we know.
That’s our spiritual core
—strengthen it; maintain it.
It will stabilize us, and it will help us
to get through the things
that are yet to come.